Android
--------

Since version 0.4.0, LISPmob includes support for Android devices operating as 
LISP mobile nodes (LISP-MN). There are two different editions of the LISPmob 
Android application, for rooted devices and for non-rooted devices. It is 
expected that in the future the root version will provide features beyond those 
available on the non-root version, however on LISPmob 0.4.1 there is just one 
root-only feature, support for IPv6 RLOCs. In both editions, there is a limit of
one IPv4 EID and one IPv6 EID mapped to one or more RLOC interfaces. Even though
 several interfaces can be managed by LISPmob at the same time, they can only be
 used in an active-backup fashion (no more than one interface used at once). 
Should you need to use NAT traversal functionality, please read first the NAT 
traversal section on the general LISPmob README.md file.

Installation
------------

The two different editions of the LISPmob application have different 
requirements. LISPmob for rooted devices requires root access and Android 
version 2.3.6 or higher, while LISPmob for non-rooted devices requires Android 
4.0 or higher. Please note that due to a bug on Android 4.4.0 and onwards, the 
non-rooted version of LISPmob will not work on Android 4.4.0, 4.4.1, 4.4.2 or 
4.4.3. The bug was fixed on Android 4.4.4. (for IPv4 EIDs). To ease the 
installation process we strongly recommend installing LISPmob through Google Play 
(search for “lispmob”), however you can also download a precompiled APK package 
file from the LISPmob website or compile the app from sources yourself. In any 
case, if you choose to install LISPmob without using Google Play, the device 
must be configured to allow the installation of packages from "unknown sources" 
(System Settings -> Security -> Device Administration). 

Building the code from source is supported on Linux and Mac OS X. To build 
LISPmob for Android from source code you require some extra packages beside 
those specified in the main README.md file.

  * Android SDK: [http://developer.android.com/sdk/]
  * Android NDK: [http://developer.android.com/tools/sdk/ndk/]
  * Apache Ant

Since the Android code uses git submodules, you need to build from a git 
repository checkout. To get the latest version of the LISPmob source from Github:

    git clone git://github.com/LISPmob/lispmob.git
    cd lispmob
    git submodule init
    git submodule update
    
Install androgenizer in order to compile json-c:

    cd android/jni/androgenizer
    autoreconf -i
    ./configure
    make
    make install
    
Compile json-c

    cd android/jni/json-c
    ./autogen.sh os=-linux-android
    make Android.mk
            
To build the code, go to the `android/` directory located in the top-level 
directory and modify the `local.properties` file with the correct path to your 
Android SDK and Android NDK.  In the Android SDK Manager you should either have
installed Android 4.2.2 (API 17), or update the `project.properties` file to
specify your currently installed API. Please note that regardless of the target 
API, LISPmob for rooted devices should still work on all Android releases from 
API 9 (Android 2.3 Gingerbread) and above, and the non-rooted version should 
work on releases from API 14 (Android 4.0 Ice Cream Sandwich) and above.

Compile the code with:

    cd android
    ./select_appl.bash
    ant debug

This command generates an APK file called `lispmob-debug.apk` in the folder
`android/bin/`. To install it, copy the file to the device and install it using
the android application manager, or run:

    adb install [-r] bin/lispmob-debug.apk


Running LISPmob
---------------

LISPmob Android application allows you to start and stop the lispd daemon and 
edit the most important parameters of the configuration file. To access the full
list of configurable parameters you have to edit manually the configuration file
located in /sdcard/lispd.conf.  Manually edited parameters not present in the 
graphical configuration interface will be overwritten when using the graphical 
configuration editor. 

Due to the large amount of data generated by the lispd daemon, it is recommended 
to set "log level" to 0 when not debugging.
